the ability to instantly share any song
from the history of recorded music is
actually a pretty recent invention it
wasn't so long ago that if you wanted to
share music you did it with physical
objects called cassettes
we call these mixtapes and you are not
going to believe how difficult it was to
make one the first thing you needed was
a blank tape a package of blank tapes
was like a box of potential and once you
had the tape you didn't fill it with
music by dragging and dropping while you
check Facebook in the other window the
songs had to be painstakingly recorded
one by one in real time some people
would even listen to the radio all day
waiting for their song to come on
just so they could capture it on a
mixtape think about that the next time
you are complaining that the obscure
band you like isn't streaming on Spotify
it was such a labor of love with so many
challenges heaps were tangible objects
that came with hard time limits if you
didn't plan you might run out of tape in
the middle of a song and then you had to
do that whole side over again making a
mixtape was a process but it was also an
opportunity to think about the person
you were making the tape for from the
songs you chose to the order you put
them in every aspect of making a mixtape
was an opportunity to say something it
could almost feel like actually
producing an album you would imagine
them listening to the music hoping
they'd appreciate every choice you made
but the truth is they didn't need to
making a mixtape was frankly such a pain
in the ass that the mere act of simply
doing it was enough to send a message
every mixtape was an irreplaceable
one-of-a-kind special in its own way
which made it all the more heartbreaking
when things went wrong though they could
usually be fixed with the help of some
other advanced 80s technology you know
obviously we have developed more
efficient simpler ways to share songs
you like but unless you are actually a
musician there is still no better way to
say something with music especially when
that something is I think we should make
out
you